Hey, guys, what's up this summer, and I welcome you to another story on this course on Rubaiyat and
this tutorial we are going to be covering to statement the first one in the wild statement, and then
we are going to be discussing the key word.
So starting on with a wise statement, the vital statement is a controlled flow statement that allows
the car to be executed repeatedly based on a given boolean condition, how it executes the good while
the condition is true, the while he would execute the statement inside the lock enclosed by that and
key word and the statements are executed each time the expression is to be true.
So if you talk about the syntax of the world condition, you can see it right.
Here you have the wild word up to the one key word.
You have to specify the condition which is going to be checked.
Then you are going to specify the statements you want to execute in the wild condition is true.
You're also going to have an incremental or decremental counter type of something that is going to make
the condition false at some instance, because if you don't have something like that, then the condition
is always going to be true and the loop is never going to be on.
And it is also called a never ending value.
So you can see one more thing.
So here is the Dukey word.
Now, this Dukey word is basically optional.
If you don't want to specify it, don't do it.
But if you want to, you can always have it.
Now, the second key word is our until statement, and if you talk about the syntax of this, it is
very simple.
You have to write until you have to write in the condition and then you have to write in the statements
you want to execute.
And the until it's also a control statement which executes the code.
While the condition is false, the loop stops when the condition is true.
So to talk on with some examples of both of these.
Let's move on to our.
I did over here, so we will start on with the example of the loofahs, so let's say we have a variable
that is AI that is equal to, let's say zero.
And that is what is called the initialization part.
And you are going to have the initialization for the while loop right over here.
And then let's say we are having one more variable that is some equal to zero.
Now we will have a while loop and after the one, we have to specify the condition.
So we are going to specify the condition that while AI is less than 10.
So while AI is less than then what we want to do is.
That we will have, let's say I equal to.
I plus one.
All right, then finally, we are going to ride in some equal to.
Someplace I.
And finally, after this wild look and what we are going to do is we are going to ride in boats.
The sum from.
Zero to nine.
Is.
Whatever is stored in the same variable now, the good example, we have basically calculated the sum
of values from a range of numbers.
Now, the loop over here has three parts.
The first is the initialization part.
Then we have the testing part and then we have the updating.
But now since while is a loop, so therefore we will have a certain set of statement executed again
and again.
And each execution of the statement is going to be called a cycle.
Now, in here you can see that we have the two initialization equal to zero and some equal to zero.
So we have initiated the eye and the sum variable.
Then we will have a counter variable in which we have selected this, i.e. equal to zero, which is
going to be called as the counter.
Then we have the while loop in which we have specified the condition that while it is less than 10,
what do you have to do is that you have to execute this set statement and then you have to simply.
And so the expression between the vial and the doki work is the second phase that is called as the testing
phase.
Now, you have to know the ahead that the Dukey word is optional, the statements in the room the body
are going to execute until the expression is evaluated to false and how it is going to be done.
That is going to be the third phase of the value that is called updating this and which is right over
here.
That is equal to a plus one.
So this third phase is basically called updating.
We increment the counter.
Now, if you don't specify this counter over here, then what it is going to do is that it is going
to keep on repeating because if you don't increment the value of EI, which is zero at start.
So this conditional here is going to be always, always true.
And whatever you specify over here is going to execute again and again and again again.
And it is never going to stop.
And it is also going to be called a never ending value.
So you have to specify some kind of counter that is called a definition of the counter.
So we have this I incremented right O'Haire.
So every time this loop is basically it's it complete one of its cycles, the value of is going to be
increment it for Fuscus it is going to equal to zero then it is going to execute for equal to a plus
one then for do then I three i4 and finally it is going to identify what then this condition is going
to what it is going to come out and it is going to print the same party.
So I just run this code.
You can see that it says the sum from zero to nine is fifty five.
You can just calculated on the paper if you want to or you can just trust your editor.
Right.
Or help.
So this is how basically a while loop goes on and you're going to use loop a lot in the future tutorial,
so I suggest that you just grab it right over here when I'm talking.
So the second part of the tutorial deals with the until key word which executes the code until and unless
the condition is false and it is going to stop when the condition becomes true.
So, for example, let's just remove this from here.
So let's say we have a variable.
Let's say Dayme.
And this time, variable is equal to, let's say, 20 for.
So just remove it from here as well, and we are going to.
Have the key words, we are going to adjourn until.
Time equal, equal to zero, what it is going to do is that it is going to say that if.
Time equal, equal to one, it is going to say that.
There is.
All right, so just going to say there is hashtag time, which is going to be one, so it is going to
say there is one hour left so you can just write an hour left, not hours left.
And if it is something else than that, it is going to be either from two to 24 or so.
It is going to say El's.
It is going to put.
There are.
This much time.
Left, that is going to specify the time and it is going to say hours left.
And finally, what you're going to do is that you are going to write in the end statement here.
And I guess you can just run this code now, all right, so it says it has got some syntax error that
is expected, end of input, expecting and.
All right, if we have not specified the end for this, if statements, you have to specify if and who
are here for this if statement.
So this is going to be the law for the statement.
And this is basically the blog for the under statement in which this end is for this until and this.
And as for this statement of well, and also, yes, you have to specify the counter, because if you
don't specify the counter, then this is also going to be a never ending loop.
So you're going to also write in time equal to time minus one.
So time is going to be decremental each time since we want it to start on from 24 and gone to zero.
So I guess it's good looking.
Let's just run it on.
As you can see that it says there are 24 hours left, there are 23 hours left.
And so until you do twenty one and go on, go on, go on to one hour left.
So it is going to finally say there are there is one hour left.
So just rerun it so that it is much more aligned.
Now it looks more beautiful.
All right.
So for this, it also again has three parts.
The first one is the initialization part in which we have initialized a variable that is time equal
to 24.
Then we have a checking condition, which is right here in which we have.
Right, and until time equal, equal to zero, and in that we have also specified and if condition in
which we have.
Written that if Democratico wants, it is going to say there is and if it is greater than one and so
it is going to say there are this much hours left for this, it is going to be ours because we have
used our hill for is it is going to be something else then as as just a basic English concept.
And then this is the end statement.
And then this is the third part that is basically something that decrements the counter so that this
until and somewhere.
So finally, this is the end statement for this onto the keyboard.
And this is what is the output that is going to be generated after all this.
So I guess that's it with the two key words.
I hope you have understood them because they are going to be used a lot in the future.
Advanced durians.
So that's what this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next Dorio.